[docs] Add React Native DevTools guide, update related info (#4275)
facebook/react-native-website: docs/react-native-devtools.md

---
id: react-native-devtools
title: React Native DevTools
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'; import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'; import constants from '@site/core/TabsConstants';

> React Native DevTools is our new debugging experience featuring an end-to-end rewrite of our debugger stack. It aims to be more deeply integrated and fundamentally more reliable than previous debugging methods in React Native.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Native DevTools is the tool you can use to debug React Native apps.
It aims to be more deeply integrated and fundamentally more reliable than previous debugging methods in React Native.
```

I will remove all the sentences with a temporal connotation as they will not age well. Years from now, the page will still read as "our new debugging experience" and it will talk about the complete rewrite, even if that happened years ago.

Author: https://github.com/facebook/react-native-website/pull/4275#discussion_r1804709643

Reviewer: I don't get the reply. I really think we need to remove all the temporal references or it will be our "new debugging experience" also in 0.80.

![React Native DevTools opened to the "Welcome" pane](/docs/assets/debugging-rndt-welcome.jpg)

React Native DevTools is designed for debugging React app concerns, and not to replace native tools. If you want to inspect React Native’s underlying platform layers (for example, while developing a Native Module), please use the debugging tools available in Android Studio and Xcode (see [Debugging Native Code](http://localhost:3000/docs/next/debugging-native-code)).

<details>

> <summary>**💡 Compatibility** — released in 0.76</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<summary>**💡 Compatibility**</summary>
```

Author: https://github.com/facebook/react-native-website/pull/4275#discussion_r1804709643

> React Native DevTools supports all React Native apps running Hermes. It replaces the previous Flipper, Experimental Debugger, and Hermes debugger (Chrome) entry points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Native DevTools supports all React Native apps running Hermes. It replaces the previous Flipper, Experimental Debugger, and Hermes debugger (Chrome) frontends.
```

> React Native DevTools supports all React Native 0.76 apps (and onwards) running Hermes. It replaces the previous Flipper, Experimental Debugger, and Hermes debugger (Chrome) entry points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Native DevTools supports all React Native apps running Hermes. It replaces the previous Flipper, Experimental Debugger, and Hermes debugger (Chrome) entry points.
```
The versioning is part of the website. Users reading docs for 0.75 will not see this page, so it's clear that is valid from 0.76 and onward

Author: I think it's super helpful to reinforce this, particularly as we risk confusion with the 0.73+ Experimental Debugger for this feature.

Re: the temporal point in general — I want to be specific if possible, for the above reason. We will refresh these docs continually during next year.

Reviewer: > We will refresh these docs continually during next year.

I hope so, but these bits are easy to forget. I will remove them now to avoid issue in the future. I don't believe that it is helpful to keep them.

Author: Will keep the "released in 0.76" hook in the callout title and drop these inner ones 👍🏻

> It is not possible to set up React Native DevTools with any older versions of React Native.

Reviewer: maybe we can add a note here, if we want to be explicit.

```suggestion
:::note
React Native DevTools has been released in React Native 0.76.
It is not possible to set up React Native DevTools with any older versions of React Native.
:::
```

Author: This is already in an expandable `<details>` block; this also allows the wording to be a bit more extended and specific.

- **Chrome Browser DevTools — unsupported**
  - Connecting to React Native via `chrome://inspect` is no longer supported. Features may not work correctly, as the latest versions of Chrome DevTools (which are built to match the latest browser capabilities and APIs) have not been tested, and this frontend lacks our customisations. Instead, we ship a supported version with React Native DevTools.
- **Visual Studio Code — unsupported** (pre-existing)

>   - Third party extensions such as [Expo Tools](https://github.com/expo/vscode-expo) and [Radon IDE](https://ide.swmansion.com/) may have improved compatibility, but are not directly supported by the React team.

Reviewer: This reads in a negative way. Can we just omit them?

Author: The third party VS Code extensions part?

I think we need to be accurate and up front about our compatibility changes, here in our docs as well as the feedback thread. This is both to highlight the depth of the changes made to our debugging stack, and to protect from the possible image that RNDT is meant to work perfectly outside our first party frontend (it very much will not!).

Note that these bullets are collapsed in an expandable `<details>` block.

> </details>
> <details>
> <summary>**💡 Feedback & FAQs**</summary>

Reviewer: why in a details/summary section? 

I think this is relevant and it can have its own sub section

```suggestion
## 💡 Feedback & FAQs
```

Reviewer: But this contains a reference that the users might not find when they need it. I might want to go to the discussion and I might miss it when I skim through the document because it is collapsed in the `details`...

Author: I feel that "FAQs" is a good enough title callout for people to discover this. I'd like readers to hit the content of this page (with new sections incoming) sooner.

We want the tooling you use to debug React across all platforms to be reliable, familiar, simple, and cohesive. All the features described on this page are built with these principles in mind, and we also want to offer more capabilities in future.

We are actively iterating on the future of React Native DevTools, and have created a centralized [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals/discussions/819) to keep track of issues, frequently asked questions, and feedback.

</details>

## Core features

> React Native DevTools is based on the Chrome DevTools frontend. If you have a web development background, its features should be extremely familiar. As a starting point, we recommend browsing the [Chrome DevTools docs](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools) which contain full guides as well as video resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Native DevTools is based on the Chrome DevTools frontend. If you have a web development background, its features should be familiar. As a starting point, we recommend browsing the [Chrome DevTools docs](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools) which contain full guides as well as video resources.
```

extremely might make feel bad web devs that are not familiar with the React DevTools (perhaps they worked with other frameworks for a lot of time and just moved to React/ReactNative.)
